1.A fundamental aspect of _____ is that it effectively conducts global business by providing an individual the right to freedom of expression and organization.

	a. communist totalitarianism	
	b. democracy	
	c. right-wing totalitarianism	
	d. theocracy
2.Which of the following is true of the common law system?

	a. It has spread to all English-speaking countries and their (former) colonies.	
	b. It does not allow interpretations of the law by judges.	
	c. It is the oldest legal system in the world.	
	d. It bases its legal judgment primarily on the dominant religion of the country.
3._____ refers to a legal system based on religious teachings.

	a. Common law	
	b. Civil law	
	c. Right-wing totalitarian law	
	d. Theocratic law
4.The TRIPS system was designed to _____.

	a. create IP rights that adhered to the norms of individual countries	
	b. force firms to enforce IP rights through an informal system	
	c. make sure that firms follow theocratic laws	
	d. force firms to innovate while strictly adhering to IPR guidelines
5.Which of the following economies would be characterized as having a laissez faire policy?

	a. Command economy	
	b. Pure market economy	
	c. Socialist economy	
	d. Mixed economy
6.Which of the following is true of a pure market economy?

	a. All factors of production are privately owned.	
	b. Its policies are based on religious decree.	
	c. All factors of production are owned by the government.	
	d. It has elements of both a market economy and a command economy.
7.Which of the following is true of a command economy?

	a. It strictly follows the doctrine of laissez faire.	
	b. The government only performs those functions that the private sector cannot perform.	
	c. It does not allow private entrepreneurship.	
	d. All factors of production are privately owned.	
8.For which of the following types of economies would the factors of production depend on the relative distribution of market forces versus command forces?

	a. Pure market economy	
	b. Strict laissez faire economy	
	c. Mixed economy	
	d. Command economy
9.Which of the following is true of private ownership?

	a. It allows financing only through nationalized banks.	
	b. It tends to force firms into liquidation due to high competition.	
	c. Its primary objective is protecting jobs and minimizing social unrest.	
	d. It empowers the government to determine firm entry.	
10.Which of the following is NOT a proposition of the institution-based view of global business?
	a. Informal institutions do not govern firm behavior.	
	b. Managers and firms rationally pursue their interests and make choices within the formal and informal constraints.	
	c. In situations where formal constraints are unclear, informal constraints will play a larger role in reducing uncertainty.	
	d. Formal and informal institutions combine to govern firm behavior
11.Democracy is:
	a. A political system in which power is in the hands of the military.	
	b. A political system in which power is in the hands of one religious party.	
	c. A political system in which power in the hands of one person or party.	
	d. A political system in which citizens elect representatives to govern the country.
12.Which country follows theocratic law?
	a. China	
	b. Saudi Arabia	
	c. United States	
	d. France	
13.Which of the following statement is NOT true about market economy?
	a. All factors of production should be government owned and controlled.	
	b. The government takes a hands-off approach in market economy.	
	c. Market economy is characterized by the “invisible hand” of market forces.	
	d. The government only performs functions the private sector cannot perform.
14.What are the two core propositions behind the institution-based view of global business?
	a. Managers and firms pursue their interests and make choices irrationally in situations; and where formal constraints are unclear or fail, informal constraints will play a larger role in reducing uncertainty and providing constancy to managers and firms.	
	b. Managers and firms pursue their interests and make choices rationally in situations; and where formal constraints are unclear or fail, informal constraints will play a larger role in reducing uncertainty and providing constancy to managers and firms.	
	c. Managers and firms pursue their interests and make choices rationally in situations; and when formal constraints are unclear or fail, informal constraints will also fail to reduce uncertainty.	
	d. Managers and firms pursue their interests and make choices irrationally in situations; and when formal constraints are unclear or fail, informal constraints will also fail to reduce uncertainty.
15.Which economic system is the most common?
	a. A mixed economy	
	b. A global economy	
	c. A pure command economy	
	d. A pure market economy	
16.Which of the following is NOT a proposition of the institution-based view of global business?
	a. In situations where formal constraints are unclear, informal constraints will play a larger role in reducing uncertainty.	
	b. Managers and firms rationally pursue their interests and make choices within the formal and informal constraints.	
	c. Informal institutions do not govern firm behavior.	
	d. Formal and informal institutions combine to govern firm behavior.
17.The main supportive pillars of the informal institutions are _____.

	a. normative and cognitive	
	b. cognitive and regulatory	
	c. regulatory, normative, and cognitive	
	d. regulatory and normative
18._____ are represented by laws, regulations, and rules.

	a. Cognitive institutions	
	b. Normative institutions	
	c. Sociocultural institutions	
	d. Formal institutions
19.The _____ refers to the coercive power of governments.

	a. regulatory pillar	
	b. informal pillar	
	c. normative pillar	
	d. cognitive pillar
20.Which of the following would be considered an example of formal institutions?

	a. Laws	
	b. Ethics	
	c. Norms	
	d. Cultures
21.In which of the following examples can the role of the cognitive pillar be identified?

	a. A firm being punished for corporate espionage by the courts	
	b. A firm not being able to sell a certain product in a country due to the prevalent cultural beliefs	
	c. A firm being exposed after one of its employees turned whistleblower	
	d. A firm outsourcing its jobs
