1.On a graph, consumer surplus is represented by the area

	a. below the price and above the supply curve.	
	b. below the demand curve and above price.	
	c. between the demand and supply curves.	
	d. below the demand curve and to the right of equilibrium price.
2.A drought in California destroys many red grapes causing the prices of both red grapes and red wine to rise . As a result, the consumer surplus in the market for red grapes

	a. decreases, and the consumer surplus in the market for red wine decreases.	
	b. decreases, and the consumer surplus in the market for red wine increases.	
	c. increases, and the consumer surplus in the market for red wine increases.	
	d. increases, and the consumer surplus in the market for red wine decreases.
3.Bob purchases a book for $6, and his consumer surplus is $2. How much is Bob willing to pay for the book?

	a. $8	
	b. $6	
	c. $4	
	d. $2	
4.If a consumer places a value of $15 on a particular good and if the price of the good is $17, then the

	a. price of the good will fall due to market forces.	
	b. market is not a competitive market.	
	c. consumer has consumer surplus of $2 if he or she buys the good.	
	d. consumer does not purchase the good.	
5.Henry is willing to pay 45 cents, and Janine is willing to pay 55 cents, for 1 pound of bananas. When the price of bananas falls from 50 cents a pound to 40 cents a pound,

	a. Janine experiences an increase in consumer surplus, but Henry does not.	
	b. Henry experiences an increase in consumer surplus, but Janine does not.	
	c. neither Janine nor Henry experiences an increase in consumer surplus.	
	d. both Janine and Henry experience an increase in consumer surplus.
6.Suppose there is an early freeze in California that reduces the size of the lemon crop. As the price of lemons rises, what happens to consumer surplus in the market for lemons?

	a. Consumer surplus decreases.	
	b. Consumer surplus increases.	
	c. Consumer surplus is not affected by this change in market forces.	
	d. We would have to know whether the demand for lemons is relatively  elastic or inelastic to make this determination.
7.When a country that imports a particular good imposes a tariff on that good,

	a. consumer surplus increases and total surplus decreases in the market for that good.	
	b. consumer surplus increases and total surplus increases in the market for that good.	
	c. consumer surplus decreases and total surplus decreases in the market for that good.	
	d. consumer surplus decreases and total surplus increases in the market for that good.
8.When a country that imports a particular good imposes an import quota on that good,

	a. consumer surplus increases and total surplus decreases in the market for that good.	
	b. consumer surplus increases and total surplus increases in the market for that good.	
	c. consumer surplus decreases and total surplus decreases in the market for that good.	
	d. consumer surplus decreases and total surplus increases in the market for that good.
9.Import quotas and tariffs produce some common results. Which of the following is not one of those common results?

	a. Producer surplus in the domestic country always increases.	
	b. The domestic country always experiences a deadweight loss.	
	c. Equal revenue is always raised for the domestic government.	
	d. Total surplus in the domestic country always falls
10.Which of the following is not a commonly-advanced argument for trade restrictions?

	a. The national-security argument	
	b. The jobs argument	
	c. The efficiency argument	
	d. The infant-industry argument	
11.If the United States threatens to impose a tariff on Colombian coffee if Colombia does not remove agricultural subsidies, the United States will be

	a. better off regardless of how Colombia responds.	
	b. better off if Colombia removes the subsidies, and will be no worse off if it doesn’t.	
	c. worse off regardless of how Colombia responds.	
	d. worse off if Colombia doesn't remove the subsidies in response to the threat.
12.What is the fundamental basis for trade among nations?

	a. Shortages or surpluses in nations that do not trade	
	b. Absolute advantage	
	c. Comparative advantage	
	d. Misguided economic policies
13.A tax on an imported good is called a

	a. tariff.	
	b. quota.	
	c. supply tax.	
	d. trade tax.
14.When a country allows trade and becomes an exporter of a good, which of the following is not a consequence?

	a. The price paid by domestic consumers of the good increases.	
	b. The price received by domestic producers of the good increases.	
	c. The gains of domestic producers of the good exceed the losses of domestic consumers of the good.	
	d. The losses of domestic consumers of the good exceed the gains of domestic producers of the good.
15.In a simple circular-flow diagram, total income and total expenditure are

	a. never equal because total income always exceeds total expenditure.	
	b. equal only when the government purchases no goods or services.	
	c. always equal because every transaction has a buyer and a seller.	
	d. seldom equal because of the ongoing changes in an economy's unemployment rate.
16.According to the circular-flow diagram GDP, can be computed as

	a. the revenue firms receive from the sales of goods and services but not as the payments they make to factors of production.	
	b. either the revenue firms receive from the sales of goods and services or the payments they make to factors of production.	
	c. neither the revenue firms receive nor the payments they make to factors of production.	
	d. payments firms make to factors of production but not as revenues they receive from the sales of goods and services.
17.GDP is defined as the

	a. value of all final goods and services produced within a country in a given period of time.	
	b. value of all final goods and services produced by the citizens of a country, regardless of where they are living, in a given period of time.	
	c. value of all goods and services produced by the citizens of a country, regardless of where they are living, in a given period of time.	
	d. value of all goods and services produced within a country in a given period of time.
18.In order to include many different goods and services in an aggregate measure, GDP is computed using, primarily,

	a. profits from producing goods and services.	
	b. market prices.	
	c. values of goods and services based on surveys of consumers.	
	d. quantities purchased by a typical urban household.
19.Which of the following is included in GDP?

	a. Neither the market value of owner-occupied housing services nor the market value of rental housing services	
	b. The market value of rental housing services, but not the market value of owner-occupied housing services	
	c. Both the market value of rental housing services and the market value of owner-occupied housing services	
	d. The market value of owner-occupied housing services, but not the market value of rental housing services
20.Which of the following is included in the calculation of GDP?

	a. The purchase of a new edition of a foreign textbook that was produced in a different nation.	
	b. The purchase of tutoring services from a tutor who holds citizenship outside the country but resides within the country.	
	c. The purchase of a used textbook from a friend who took the same class last year.	
	d. The purchase of ink and paper supplies by a textbook company for the production of new textbooks.
21.A farmer produces oranges and sells them to Fresh Juice, which makes orange juice. The oranges produced by the farmer are called

	a. final goods.	
	b. inventory goods.	
	c. intermediate goods.	
	d. transitory goods.
22.Jackie, a Canadian citizen, works only in the United States. The value of the output she produces is

	a. included in neither U.S. GDP nor U.S. GNP.	
	b. included in U.S. GDP, but it is not included in U.S. GNP.	
	c. included in both U.S. GDP and U.S. GNP.	
	d. included in U.S. GNP, but it is not included in U.S. GDP.
23.For the purpose of calculating GDP, investment is spending on

	a. capital equipment, inventories, and structures, excluding household purchases of new housing.	
	b. capital equipment, inventories, and structures, including household purchases of new housing.	
	c. stocks, bonds, and other financial assets.	
	d. real estate and financial assets such as stocks and bonds.
24.Which of the following items is the one type of household expenditure that is categorized as investment rather than consumption?

	a. The purchase of stocks and bonds	
	b. The purchase of a new house	
	c. The purchase of durable goods such as stoves and washing machines	
	d. Spending on education
25.The value of goods added to a firm's inventory in a certain year is treated as

	a. spending on durable goods, since the goods could not be inventoried unless they were durable.	
	b. investment, since GDP aims to measure the value of the economy's production that year.	
	c. consumption, since the goods will be sold to consumers in another period.	
	d. intermediate goods, and so is not included in that year's GDP.
26.To encourage formation of small businesses, the government could provide subsidies; these subsidies

	a. would be included in GDP because they are part of investment expenditures.	
	b. would not be included in GDP because they are transfer payments.	
	c. would not be included in GDP because the government raises taxes to pay for them.	
	d. would be included in GDP because they are part of government purchases.
