1.The resource-based view of global business differs from the institution-based view of global business in that the resource-based view _____.

	a. advocates adopting a single method for achieving globalization	
	b. supports the ideology of total globalization	
	c. postulates the ideology of localization	
	d. focuses on the internal strengths on the firm
2.Which of the following is true of globalization according to the “pendulum view” perspective?

	a. Globalization is a recent phenomenon of human trade.	
	b. Globalization is being interrupted by artificial barriers to the flows of goods, services, capital, and knowledge.	
	c. Globalization is a Western ideology focused on exploiting and dominating the world through MNEs.	
	d. Globalization is a not a one-directional phenomenon.
3.The _____ of globalization suggests that globalization is neither recent nor one-directional.

	a. pendulum view	
	b. long-run historical view	
	c. colonial view	
	d. new-force view
4.Which of the following is true of semiglobalization?

	a. It is a type of globalization that lies between total isolation and total globalization.	
	b. It is a form of globalization that considers each nation in isolation when conducting business.	
	c. It is a type of globalization that adopts a strategy of treating the entire world as one market.	
	d. It is a form of globalization that treats each country as a unique market.
5.Globalization can be viewed as:
	a. A new force sweeping through the world in recent times.	
	b. A long-run historical evolution since the dawn of human history.	
	c. A pendulum that swings from one extreme to another from time to time.	
	d. All of these answers.
6.Name the three views of globalization.
	a. A recent force, a long-running evolution, and a pendulum	
	b. Economic, political, and geographic	
	c. Profits, losses, and total sales	
	d. Past, present, and future
7.The _____ theory viewed international trade as a zero-sum game.

	a. comparative advantage	
	b. strategic trade	
	c. national competitive advantage of industries	
	d. mercantilism	
8.The _____ principle advocated that governments should actively protect domestic industries from imports and vigorously promote exports.

	a. comparative advantage	
	b. absolute advantage	
	c. factor endowment	
	d. protectionism
9.Which of the following is a modern trade theory?

	a. Comparative advantage	
	b. National competitive advantage	
	c. Absolute advantage	
	d. Mercantilism
10.The _____ theory is based on the assumption that the wealth of the world is fixed.

	a. product life cycle	
	b. mercantilism	
	c. strategic trade	
	d. national competitive advantage of industries	
11.Import quotas are a type of _____.

	a. tariff barrier	
	b. nontariff barrier	
	c. antidumping duty	
	d. voluntary export restraint
12.According to the theory of absolute advantage, under free trade,
	a. Each nation gains by specializing in economic activities in which a nation has absolute advantage.	
	b. No country has an absolute advantage in economic activities.	
	c. Each nation loses by specializing in economic activities in which a nation has absolute advantage.	
	d. Every country has an absolute advantage in a certain economic activity.	
13.Which of the following is NOT a nontariff trade barrier (NTB)?
	a. Subsidies	
	b. Local content requirements	
	c. Import quotas	
	d. Cultural distance
14.Chile requires 50 units of resource to produce one ton of wine and 20 units of resource to produce one ton of blueberries. France requires 30 units of resource to produce one ton of wine and 40 units of resource to produce one ton of blueberries. Which of the following is true?
	a. Chile has a comparative advantage in wine.	
	b. France has a comparative advantage in blueberries.	
	c. There is no reason for Chile and France to trade.	
	d. France has a comparative advantage in wine.	
15.Which of the following theories does NOT lead to the conclusion that unrestricted free trade is in the best interests of all countries?
	a. Product life cycle theory	
	b. Strategic trade theory	
	c. Comparative advantage theory	
	d. Absolute advantage theory
16.Free trade is defined as:
	a. The idea that market forces should determine how much to trade with little or no government intervention.	
	b. The exchange of goods and services for similar goods or services rather than currency.	
	c. The absence of laws, tariffs, or any other types of barriers to trade.	
	d. The economic advantage one nation enjoys by trading with other nations.
17According to the theory of absolute advantage, under free trade,
	a. each nation gains by specializing in economic activities in which a nation has absolute advantage.	
	b. no country has an absolute advantage in economic activities.	
	c. each nation loses by specializing in economic activities in which a nation has absolute advantage.	
	d. every country has an absolute advantage in a certain economic activity.
18.Which of the following is NOT a nontariff trade barrier (NTB)?
	a. Local content requirements	
	b. Cultural distance	
	c. Import quotas	
	d. Subsidies	
19.Protectionism is similar to mercantilism as they both advocated _____.

	a. dividing the nations of the world into three categories based on its innovation capabilities	
	b. government involvement in international trade	
	c. developing comparative advantages based on a nation’s locally abundant factors	
	d. specializing in economic activities in which a nation can have an absolute advantage
20.OLI advantages refer to a firm’s quest for _____via FDI.

	a. organization advantages, leadership advantages, and innovation advantages	
	b. oligopolistic advantages, laissez-faire advantages, and intrafirm trade advantages	
	c. ownership advantages, location advantages, and internalization advantages	
	d. outsourcing advantages, licensing advantages, and importing advantages
21.MNEs' possession and leveraging of certain valuable, rare, hard-to-imitate, and organizationally embedded (VRIO) assets overseas in the context of FDI refer to _____.

	a. ownership	
	b. internalization	
	c. location	
	d. market imperfections	
22.Firms prefer FDI to licensing because FDI_____.

	a. increases the chances of opportunism when dealing with a host nation entity	
	b. protects the firm from economic agglomeration	
	c. provides the firm with direct ownership to its foreign assets	
	d. requires complete dissemination of technologic
23.Which of the following political perspectives maintains the view that FDI has both pros and cons and can only be approved when its benefits outweigh costs?

	a. Pragmatic nationalism	
	b. Protectionism	
	c. The radical view of FDI	
	d. The free market view of FDI	
24.Which of the following is a benefit of FDI to home countries?

	a. Decrease in competition between local firms	
	b. Learning from operations	
	c. Capital outflow	
	d. Creation of new jobs
25.Which of the following foreign exchange transactions provide protection to traders and investors from being exposed to fluctuations of the spot rate?

	a. Forward transactions	
	b. Spot transactions	
	c. Currency swaps	
	d. Direct transaction
26._____ is defined as the conversion of one currency into another at Time 1, with an agreement to revert it back to the original currency at a specific Time 2 in the future.

	a. Currency swap	
	b. Spot transaction	
	c. Forward transaction	
	d. Currency hedging
27.Foreign exchange rates are influenced by:
	a. all of these	
	b. interest rates and money supply.	
	c. relative price differences and purchasing power parity.	
	d. supply and demand of the currencies.	
28.A savvy global business manger must understand the following concepts to be considered literate about foreign exchange:
	a. Understand the factors that influence exchange rates	
	b. All of these	
	c. Understand the ways to hedge currency risks	
	d. Understand the foreign exchange market
29.If an IMF member country were to find itself in a severe balance of payments crisis that threatened its financial stability, the IMF would most likely:
	a. all of these answers	
	b. give the country a loan but require the country to make long-term policy reforms.	
	c. reduce the country's quota.	
	d. give the country an emergency grant.	
30.Which of the following are the primary types of foreign exchange transactions made by financial companies?
	a. Forward transactions, swaps, exchange rate adjustments	
	b. Swaps and spot transactions	
	c. Swaps, spot transactions, forward transactions	
	d. Spot transactions, forward transactions, vertical transactions
31.A home appliance manufacturer located in The Netherlands decides to open two new manufacturing plants, one in Poland and the other in Thailand. Its purpose is to offset currency losses through:
	a. forward transactions.	
	b. strategic hedging.	
	c. dissemination risk.	
	d. currency swaps.
32.Why do managers, at some of the largest global corporations, fail to engage in currency hedging?
	a. They believe that the protection against fluctuations in exchange rates is not worth the potentially high cost of currency hedging.	
	b. Since strategic hedging is the same as currency hedging, only with more protection, they believe that strategic hedging is the better choice.	
	c. They believe that fluctuations in exchange rates are so minimal that currency hedging is not necessary.	
	d. All of these reasons	
33.Risk analysis of any country must include an analysis of the country's:
	a. foreign exchange rate policies.	
	b. currency risks.	
	c. IMF status.	
	d. history of economic recessions.
34.With regard to foreign market entry, the resource-based view argues that foreign firms need to

	a. understand the numerous differences in cultures, norms, and values.	
	b. take actions deemed legitimate and appropriate by the various formal and informal institutions governing market entries.	
	c. deploy overwhelming resources and capabilities to offset their liability of foreignness.	
	d. be aware of the numerous regulatory risks and trade and investment barriers.
35.Which of the following is a first-mover advantage?

	a. Avoidance of clash with a dominant firm at home	
	b. Resolution of technological and market uncertainty	
	c. No difficulty in adapting to market changes	
	d. Opportunity to free ride on second mover investments	
36.Which of the following is an equity mode of entry?

	a. Indirect exports	
	b. R&D contracts	
	c. Licensing/franchising	
	d. Wholly owned subsidiaries
37.Which of the following entry modes is a type of strategic alliance?

	a. Wholly owned subsidiary	
	b. Licensing	
	c. Acquisition	
	d. Export	
38.Which of the following is a disadvantage of licensing and franchising?

	a. High development costs	
	b. High risk in overseas expansion	
	c. Little control over marketing	
	d. Creation of a monopoly
39.Miami is an ideal city for both North American firms looking to expand their business to Central and South America and for Latin American companies to expand their business to North America. This is an example of a(n):
	a. location-specific advantage.	
	b. timing advantage.	
	c. efficiency advantage.	
	d. regulation advantage.	
40.The following are examples of location-specific advantages:
	a. All of these	
	b. Industry demand that creates a skilled labor force.	
	c. Industry demand that facilitates a pool of specialized suppliers and buyers.	
	d. Knowledge spillovers among closely located firms.	
41.Which of the following is a first-mover advantage?
	a. Avoid clashing with dominant firms in their home market.	
	b. Resolve technological and market uncertainty.	
	c. Difficulty adapting to market changes.	
	d. Provide an opportunity for a free ride.
42.Which of type of entry mode is a wholly owned subsidiary?
	a. Equity mode	
	b. Non equity	
	c. Strategic alliance	
	d. Direct export	
43.What are the possible benefits of being a late mover?
	a. Opportunity to free ride on first-mover investments	
	b. First mover's difficulty to adapt to market changes	
	c. Resolution of technological and market uncertainty	
	d. All of these answers	
44.Assume that a firm is looking to expand into a foreign market, but it needs an opportunity that has low development costs and little risk. Its best choice would be:
	a. a contractual agreement.	
	b. exporting.	
	c. a wholly owned subsidiary.	
	d. a partially owned subsidiary
45.Assume that a major technology company is looking to expand into a foreign market but it can't risk losing its core innovations by sharing them with anyone outside the corporation. Its best choice would be:
	a. a partially owned subsidiary.	
	b. exporting.	
	c. a wholly owned subsidiary.	
	d. a contractual agreement.	
46.The price leader’s _____ is defined as sufficient resources possessed to deter and combat defection.

	a. capacity to punish	
	b. capacity to imitate	
	c. capacity to compete	
	d. capacity to collude	
47._____ is defined as the extent to which a given competitor possesses strategic endowment comparable, in terms of both type and amount, to those of the focal firm.

	a. Mutual forbearance	
	b. Resource similarity	
	c. Collusion	
	d. Game theory	
48.Which of the following sets of words describes the initial set of actions a firm uses to gain competitive advantage and the other firm's response to it?

	a. Attack, counterattack	
	b. Competition, cooperation	
	c. Cooperation, signaling	
	d. Tacit collusion, explicit collusion	
49.When firms indirectly coordinate actions by signaling their intentions, often in an attempt to reduce output and maintain pricing above competitive levels, they are engaging in:
	a. tacit collusion.	
	b. none of these answers	
	c. competitor analysis.	
	d. explicit collusion.
50.Which of the following is NOT a method used by competitors to signal their intention to reduce competitive intensity to other competitors?
	a. Organizing strategic alliances with rivals for cost reduction	
	b. Developing new markets where there is less competition	
	c. Sending an open signal for a truce through the media	
	d. Seeking mutual forbearance by entering new markets	
51.How do firms create value when engaging rivals?
	a. All of these	
	b. Launch products in multiple markets.	
	c. Hold a dominant position in key markets.	
	d. Secure patents on key products.	

	











	











11.According to the theory of absolute advantage, under free trade,
	a. Each nation gains by specializing in economic activities in which a nation has absolute advantage.	
	b. No country has an absolute advantage in economic activities.	
	c. Each nation loses by specializing in economic activities in which a nation has absolute advantage.	
	d. Every country has an absolute advantage in a certain economic activity.
	
